US President Joe Biden has vowed to
support Israel and his warning against
countries interfering in
Israel let me say this as clearly as I
can this is not a moment for any party
hostile to Israel to exploit these
attacks to seek Advantage the world is
watching I've also been in contact with
the King of Jordan spoken with members
of Congress directing my National
Security team to engage with their
Israeli counterparts milit Ary to
Military Intelligence to intelligence
dipl Diplomat to Diplomat to make sure
Israel has what it
needs from Kuwait to Yemen thousands of
protesters have also marched across
several cities to show their solidarity
with Palestinians hundreds of people
celebrated in the Iranian Capital tahran
following hamas's attacks on Israel
crowds rallied at the Palestine Square
waving Palestinian flags and chanting
anti-israel slogans and in Parliament
Iranian MPS voed their support for the
unprecedented attack on
Israel rosalin Jordan is in Washington
DC dorsa Jabari is live in tan let's
start though in Washington DC with Ros
and Jordan so are we seeing American
politicians take a familiar pattern of
uh backing Israel at a time of
conflict uh that is correct uh you have
not uh seen any uh over criticism of
Israel in this uh situation of anything
you have seen full Thro at support not
just from the Biden Administration but
also from members of Congress whether
Republican or Democratic uh this is uh
perhaps one of the few issues in
latterday Washington where politicians
of both political parties agree that the
US's National Security is very much tied
to that of Israel and that there is a
commitment to ensuring that Israel does
what it needs to do and that it has what
it needs in order to protect its
citizens now there is a growing uh
sentiment that uh the uh treatment of
Palestinians both in the occupied West
Bank as well as in Gaza needs to be
dealt with that Israel needs to be held
accountable for it but you don't hear as
much of about that as you do about the
need and the right of Israel to protect
itself and that it's according to
politicians from both political parties
all right roson stay with us for a
second because what we're going to try
and do here now is show you as always
all sides of this conflict and story and
DSA Jabar is joining us from tan having
listened in as as Rosen was explained to
us the perspective there emerging from
the body politic in Washington DC it's a
very different narrative and perspective
in tan right
daa certainly Sammy this has being seen
as a historic Victory not only for the
Palestinian resistance uh movements but
also for the Palestinian people which is
a cause that is very close to the
leadership here in Iran the supreme
leader Ayatollah Ali has not directly
commented about the events that unfolded
over the past 24 hours but just a few
days ago on October 3rd he was speaking
at an event and he spent most of that
time talking about how Israel is a
cancer that must be eradicated and how
the Palestinian resistance will prevail
uh some very interesting comments from
the supreme leader just days before uh
what happened in Palestine and Israel we
also saw the social media accounts of
Ali K put together very quickly um a
montage of pictures of what we saw
yesterday in places along the border
between Gaza and Israel um and uh where
the supreme leader words in previous
speeches when he was talking about the
resistance movements of the Palestinian
people over the pictures of what
transpired on the ground so I think it's
very telling the leadership here has had
a very strong uh position and a close
relationship with the Palestinian
leadersh leadership uh since they came
into power here after the revolution of
1979 it's a very um close ideological
relationship ship as well Israel is
Iran's Public Enemy Number One every
unveiling of a new missile or uh a drone
uh program that Iran has uh they make a
point of saying how long it would take
that missile to reach Tel Aviv the last
time we saw that was um just a few
months ago in June I believe where Iran
unveiled a Hypersonic ballistic missile
and they said this would take six
minutes to reach Tel Aviv I I think
that's very telling after the events
that unfolded over the past few
hours all right Ros and stay with us
we're going to go back to dors back to
Rosland and there's a line that just
dropped Rosland which is this is
according to Israeli media we should
point out because earlier we had a
figure of 400 Dead from the Israeli
Ministry of Health well now Israeli
media reporting the number of Israeli
dead in this attack has jumped to 500
that's 5 00 dead and the last figure we
had for those wounded was over 2,000
Rosen I'm wondering you know the pattern
of conflicts that we've seen in the past
between Israel and Gaza have resulted
almost exclusively in large numbers of
dead and wounded reserved usually for
the Palestinians in terms of really Mass
numbers this time we're seeing a big
number of casualties on the Israeli side
certainly bigger than than anything
we've seen for a long time time uh
before is this going to in any any sign
that this is going to shift the
discourse and the thinking in the US
that it's time to deal with the root
causes of this any space in the
narrative there to talk about ending
occupation ending Siege rather than just
going from one round of violence to
another well you're already seeing among
uh the uh pundits who are publishing uh
snap editorials and uh think pieces that
uh this is putting the Israeli
Palestinian uh conflict back at the top
of the agenda for the Biden Harris
Administration and there had been this U
growing assumption that this particular
conflict was not a top priority
especially in light of the issue of
Ukraine and the issue of China but
certainly given that this has now come
back into into the uh public uh
discourse political analysts uh you know
Regional uh strategists are now saying
that the US needs to bring its uh good
offices to bear and to try to deal with
this question once and for all in fact
there had been this suggestion that
perhaps it was setting aside you know
this uh setting this aside as a priority
because it was uh trying to build on
something that had been started by the
Trump Administration the Abraham Accords
trying to build political alliances and
political recognition between Israel and
more of its Arab neighbors and this was
certainly uh something that uh many
people were expecting could be coming to
fruition if Saudi Arabia and Israel were
to agree in the coming months to
recognize each other officially and to
open diplomatic relations well that was
now become much more complicated because
the Saudis had been one of the advocates
for the Palestinian people and there was
a growing up thought that the Saudis
essentially were setting aside that
advocacy role in order to build this
diplomatic relationship well now how do
you marry the two there's no one uh
resolution or one agreement here in
Washington on how this can be settled I
would imagine that this would lead to
many discussions particular ularly given
that the United Nations Security Council
is meeting later on Sunday to talk about
the um the crisis at hand but certainly
the bigger discussion now is of how do
you deal with the question of a still
unformed un uh legalized Palestinian
state with the larger issue of trying to
bring peace to the greater Middle East
this is something that the US and its
allies not just in the region but in
Western Europe and really in other parts
of the world are now going to have to
Grapple with whether or not they feel
there is bandwidth to do so all right
let's thank both of our reporters for
their excellent reporting on different
sides of the world Rosen and Jordan
there Washington DC and Dosa Jabari who
joined us live from
tan